pink shorts yeah we're probably getting
a great crotch shot right and also like
pink shoes as well yeah so I don't know
I've never been as bold as you I think
well I am in Berlin Germany today joined
by Ocelot or Carlos are which one do you
go by these days
so here's the thing you know when I was
a player I build the brand also lot also
the world and I built it for the purpose
of you know it's me as a player and as
an entertainer or whatever in the video
game industry and yeah but you know as
time goes by I you know I want people to
remember me also for other things yeah
for my business success or whatever and
so because I didn't wanna like makes
both kind of you know experiences and
legacies or whatever you want to call it
I wanted to separate it you know so
there's a lot only when you're gaming
and that Carlos R is when you're
building a business I guess you could
say so
so in a way I feel ashamed when I play
now with the nickname model because I
feel like I'm I'm destroying its legacy
every time I play because I'm yeah
pretty bad right not as good as you used
to be well I'm here right now I'm pretty
bad I just want to underline it pretty
bad so join right now by Carlos we'll go
with that who is the founder and
operator of CEO CEO great I mean you
operate yeah I'm afraid I'm kidding I'm
kidding I mean I think you're synonymous
with g2 eSports is that maybe the best
way to do it right either way we're in
Berlin in his offices right now showing
others some trophies behind me yes cut I
mean a casually like this you know I
just popped here yeah it's actually we
were looking at places all over the
office to shoot and there's just
trophies everywhere in this office we
couldn't find a place that didn't happen
I'm sorry each other yeah well-well make
it work
so talking a little bit about eSports
definitely we kind of just came up with
the idea of doing this you hit me up
whenever you found out I was in Berlin
and then we decided to not only do this
interview but a podcast that people will
be able to to catch on all the GT
channels but talk to me a little bit
about how this past year
for you running g2 and I mean it feels
like the company has blown up so much in
the past couple of years right so you
know it's it's it's no like you know
many fans that are following us today
have not seen what it took us to get in
to where we are today right
which is a lot of hurdles a lot of pain
a lot of trying out stuff that didn't
work yeah but what I'm pretty sure about
and something that I'm proud of is that
we always had our you know our goals
were very ambitious right
and ever since we started we always had
you know the ambitious goal of becoming
the most valuable organization in the
world and everything we did was for that
purpose yes we up at times cities
normal I literally jumped into the pool
without knowing how to swim I was never
to CEO of any company yeah I don't have
any career like I don't have anything
any you know remarkable studies or
anything like that so I really just went
in with all my money that I had and I
lost a ton of it at the beginning and
and I learn along the way so it is only
normal that you start you know with the
left foot many times and again there's a
lot of pain a lot of learning and and
finally when things start going your way
and you know people are like oh you know
what you two is now here but the truth
is that that's just the work of even
years or you know a lot of months before
just building on our craft daily you
know so yeah you know it's just easy to
see the outside and say oh this guys are
successful what everybody through this
that we break our bones you know
yeah well what have been the highlights
from the past twelve months for you well
I think the last time I saw you we were
at MSI I think the last time I saw you
was at msl in Brazil yeah we ended it
3-1 against SKT in the finals oh yeah oh
yeah I will never forget the third game
and we were one one actually against
them and I remember we were coming back
Burks had a ran I remember and and I
remember it was it was was a wolf yeah
and he flashed in with desire
yeah II ultimate and we got completely
demolished yeah
and that was like that was the end of my
of my dream of being a Korean team well
here let's let's move away from the
Creed scheme tell me about the business
in the past 12 months like how have
things been developing for G 2 since
then it's it's incredible you know I
every day that passes I learn more and
more and I'm I'm building you know I
don't think it and torrid is the right
word
I'm building a great group of talented
people around me that complements me
everywhere you know um and when you say
compliment you you mean in the hallways
here they come up and say I thought you
look great nah Carlos Carlos the shorts
are amazing I have a have enough enough
Eagle confidence okay do not need any of
them they compliment your business
acumen compliment yeah exactly
so you know I I know what I'm pretty
good at and I know what I'm not very
good I'm pretty pragmatic in this case
right yeah and and I'm like you know if
I can hire people that is better than me
in this thing I'm not very good at then
why not right yeah and while I keep you
know I double down on the things I do
very good so yeah that's what I you know
thankfully we are able to finance more
and more kind of this very talented
people helping me out build what this is
this is a dream for us still you know it
is our intention to change the way
entertainment is understood and that
requires lots of work lots of years and
lots of big leaps of faith yeah any big
moments for you in the past 12 months
big moments okay big moments let me say
I liked it very much because we broke
the curse they were to eight vacation
means and so on which by the way is you
know every now and then I do get kind of
salty you know when I read ready they
were not because I think everyone gets
salty when they read read it every now
and then you're not alone yeah that's a
very good point but but yeah I mean you
know the g28 thing and was was bad yeah
it was bad PR as well we we and then we
also we double down into bad PR and when
with the villains image and it was it
was amazing I mean I loved it you know
but the truth is that that MSI which we
played much better you know we redeemed
ourselves it was a great moment for the
company as a whole
it's a refreshment you know yeah and
then yeah you know more great moments
when we you know in counter-strike we've
done incredibly well in a few
tournaments even though right now we're
in the process of changing the lineup
but you know there's been in rocket
league we want a league and we just want
the rocket League North American our LCS
it's called yeah I'm a real LCS I
believe is whether our stands for
exactly it's you know it's been
competitively speaking it's been
great yeah in terms of content creation
like we create incredible content we had
so much fun sure and final question like
in terms of our fan base is just growing
and growing and growing the perception
of our brand is is improving everyday
you know we don't have anywhere close as
many haters and we'll probably have like
three to four times more fans than we
did is a few months ago sure so this is
multiplying incredibly and in terms of
revenue we're also be incredibly well so
the business is just looking super solid
and I'm so happy to be speaking in the
business you know I think the big thing
that a lot of people want to hear from
EU LCS owners are or what they're
anticipating what they think about for
the permanent partner stuff we would
call it franchising I think officially
they're calling a permanent part
partnerships so that's on the horizon
you know I think obviously g2 is one of
the more prolific names in the ELC yes
but what do you think of you know the
fact that this is on the horizon and
maybe also having seen what you've seen
in North America with the permanent
partnership sitting there this year um
well first of all I think Europe is
doing incredibly well Europeans es do
incredibly well yeah um terms of
viewership I think that out of ten weeks
so four out of ten weeks your US has had
more viewership than an A in this past
plate which is incredible
considering we don't have that permanent
Punisher and your time I like across all
language streams for those correct and
you know the production quality is
getting better
shoutcasters doing great they're
learning so much our host is great as
well like we have a really good kind of
product right now so being part of that
is a is a gift and I am super happy that
to have the opportunity to write and
with that said nothing is 100 percent of
course and we saw what happened to the a
few teams yeah so you know nothing 100%
but one thing is for certain we are
working pretty hard and we believe that
we are a great partner for Riot we've
shown it through the last few years and
that won't change yeah yeah so that
that's given our end we you know we this
is say we we definitely have a good case
but again it's we are not unreasonably
optimistic or anything like that we're
just doing our work with humility even
the even though that may sound we're
coming from me
yeah but we're super humble in that
regard is there any sense from you
because I look at North America where
we've seen franchising a hit or by the
way like I I'm just shocked at the like
the difference in in like my apparel yes
yes
it's Amba like I'm just here with like
wait I don't know well I was I was at
the adventure I don't know yeah we're
probably getting a great crotch shot
right and also like pink shoes as well
yeah so I don't know I've never been as
bold as you I think yeah yeah this is
the thing man when like this is the way
I think like I don't proactively think
this way but you know the reason why I
just don't give a yeah it's because
I I just don't give a this is truth
so when I just wear this you know pink
collar or whatever like I really can't
care less of what people may think you
know and I think that's a good marketing
tool in case we sell at some point a
pink yeah pink something you know yeah
well the more unique clothing
we're the more you're known for it I
think in the more you know this thing
scarf thing has been successful for you
very much accuracy people underestimate
the power of this you know the trademark
some people know you for like I've seen
people you know this this guy of Shark
Tank classical is hero we said is
this a cowboy like jacket how's it go
this guy I can't remember the name but
here's like this cowboy jacket with the
cowboy hat and it's like the guy's a
tech guy yeah he looks ridiculous you
know but everybody knows him because of
that it kind of worked for him even
though I wouldn't do it looks pretty
good but you know it cannot work getting
back to the permanent partnership stuff
I look at I look at a you know you can
go on as many tangents as he need to buy
clothing I look at North America where
we've seen the ten partners enter and I
kind of I I'm a little skeptical about
sort of the return that they are seeing
from riot right now because we haven't
seen like the BAM tech deal really take
off yet we've only seen I think one
additional and the sponsor come in yet
is there any kind of back and forth
right now do you think between the EU
LCS owners and and riot sort of saying
like hey happy to be a part of this
happy to get the ten million in art in
ten million euro but you know we we'd
like to sort of see this from you guys
or what kind of resources are you guys
gonna be putting into sort of growing
this so there are conversations I'm
going but what every team is focused on
at the moment is in the application
itself so all the questions that we make
to rather have something to do with our
application yeah so in other words how
does this affect our application how
does this affect our future business or
whatever you know so and you know in
there we are getting good answers
but of course there play there are
things in which we can get an answer
from yet and just yet and we're
comfortable with that yeah so it's a
tough question to answer because on one
hand of course we know what us teams you
know are going through the good and the
bad sure and in a way we can't compare
directly because the teams are
in Europe and because it's a different
market different dynamics so you know
we're empathetic with I just have to
give you a very polite answer that's the
truth because yeah because I didn't I I
don't have the answers yeah and because
it would be just extremely unreasonable
for me to to say anything that I don't
know I don't have the facts in front of
me sure enough yeah but we I trust this
is the truth I do trust that the league
is going to be successful because our
bigger base is has been only increased
in compression with last year but also
is the we are growing the fanatism
you know yeah of these people like the
same people keep watching and they're
loving it because the level of
engagement and interactions between the
fans and the teams have also increased a
lot and because this is a great
opportunity to filter out those you know
teams or things that we don't like sure
so that we can create an even better
product so everything speaks positively
about the league itself I'm happy
are there any particular types of
partners that you'd like to see enter
the league or any types of businesses
because in in the West obviously we saw
or sorry in North America we saw a lot
of NBA teams enter etcetera I don't know
if I want to call them soccer but you
would say football football it's okay
it's fine yeah football soccer clubs I
don't know if they are are where you see
that a lot of the value or if it's more
in like tech companies like what what
would be an interesting type of partner
for you to see enter the EU LCS so I
think it's very important that you have
peer pressure you know in a place where
so let me go a step back sure when you
are part of something that will
hopefully last for many years you want
to increase the value of that one asset
sure so that you can make your money and
then some and for that to be successful
you need the best possible work
surrounding you if you don't have the
best possible surrounding you means that
you're gonna be you know easier on on
every mistake you commit you're maybe
not gonna create half as much con
or with have as much quality you know
but I put you know a lot of effort into
creating a good team because in are they
no one else is doing that right now so
your incentive diminishes but if you
have partners around you that simply
like they're like you know it's like
fire in your ass you know this is so
good for the league as a whole and I
would love to make sure that the nine
teams I have you know I share a league
with are doing better than me in X areas
because they know you know I'll just
come into the office with so much energy
let's just destroy them you know yeah
and it's a positive thing this is good
for everybody and I feel like we were
the ones challenging the rest in in the
years back and maybe together with one
or two more brands in the USA in the in
Europe sorry and I would love to see all
ten brands just doing their best you
know some of them be more competitively
successful some of them being the ones
that create so many sales opportunities
some of them being the ones that just
creates so much content and drive so
much fun based look every team known for
their own stuff yeah and I feel like
that uniqueness we create the value for
the league are there it or not that
today in Europe I don't think yeah are
there any specific areas like sales or
content or any any particular area that
you really want to see come into the
space I mean I'm sure all of those
together but like I think one of the
dreams with the NBA teams and I don't
know if we've realized that yet but is
that they have so many like sales
opportunity or you know connections and
relationships to be brands that they're
able to kind of like leverage all these
guys and bring them into the space in an
interesting way you know you bring
Snickers in and maybe somebody else
comes in for instance a competitor so
there's two points into it right the
first point is we can use a bigger
talent pool like eSports can use a
bigger talent pool sure in that you know
you mean town pool from like staffing
perspective traditional sports and their
know-how experiences working the NBA NFL
whatever for the last 25 years or
whatever is super helpful for us but on
the other hand we we can't forget the
fact
that we're a unique industry that was
built upon its own rules it's a global
phenomenon yeah like there are so many
things that are just so far away from
what we see in many traditional sports
like we can't look at soccer in Europe
for example as a successful business
case for us or such a business model for
us because the dynamics are so different
yeah this is a global ecosystem is
supposed to be a global ecosystem so to
which degree do we have to copy us right
to which degree do we have to copy that
approach I don't know so I think there
is good in utilizing what already exists
yeah
smartly but I think there's also bad in
over utilizing it or getting overly
inspired by it right so I think it's
great it's a good thing actually that
sports teams are coming in because they
will add another layer of showmanship
there are many things that I personally
don't enjoy in eSports today one of them
is when you go to events the VIP areas
look like yeah that's not supposed
to be the case one of the main reasons
NBA so popular especially in playoff
games is because you see Drake in first
row right and I feel like that's
something that's missing in eSports so
that's one of the things we can learn
from sports sure but on the other hand
many of the reasons why eSports is
successful today is because we are all
so unique and created our own way to
entertain ourselves
this is eSport was build by eSports
people eSport will build by ourselves
like we are a sports right when you look
at Rio when you look at anyway
Activision like they are gamers you know
they grew with this and as a result they
create the center to me industry that we
are all a part of and no one from
outside will tell us how to do that
better well I'm glad you brought that up
because I was gonna ask you you know I
won't ask you to name the teams in the
in the EU LCS per specifically but you
know you have teams that compete across
all over the place as these trophies
behind you say I'm actually kind of
curious like what eSports organizations
or European eSports organizations do you
do you really feel like our strong
headers that you like that you think are
doing great stuff in the space just any
any impertinent but you really enjoy is
uh having colleagues in the space yeah I
think look I am NOT in this order but
cloud9 vs fnatic Tim liquid and and
Paulie G - you are like I'm talking
about completely realistically in my
opinion the five organizations that are
best structured and are that are doing
overall generally the things best in
eSports sure then there are also brands
that just drive so much so many people
such as optic gaming and faze clan which
is not a coincidence I think both come
from I mean now hundred leagues right
come from the Calif duty kind of cover
the background and kind of smash this
eSport with gaming as a whole right
right which is one of the main reasons
when I have so many fans and from
YouTube and and so on so I respect both
sides equally and I think both sides are
great for eSports and then there's the
other side of the spectrum right which
is and you know it teams that that are
simply there to survive and I time will
put those things in the right place you
know that's the way I see this I feel
like either they can adapt some of them
are adapting which is a good thing or
either will there will be just killed by
the amount of energy everyone in you
know coming in has again just look at
hundreds if like it's I feel like it's a
good example of it's not it's not
something ridiculously you know crazy
what they're doing should we have a
clear idea what do you wanna do and they
go for it you know I I feel in sync with
what nature is doing there you know I
feel like during a great job and
and and I feel like more of that is
required like caring about like why are
you here in the first place why is g2
able to survive today well because we
have revenue
what is that revenue coming from okay so
merchandise or fans buy things
ownership partnerships about
opportunities which means why do we have
them well because we have fence right
right but they don't they everything
ends in the fence
how can you on your right Mac how can
you have the the what's the word I'm
looking for
the lack of respect to not create a
single content piece for those people
that are the very reason you exist is
beyond me so I'll never understand that
and as long as the company whatever it
is the organization is built upon
placing those funds in any way possible
then I'm happy that there are yeah well
we've got a podcast to get to but I'm
curious if there's anything that you
would like to say to any of the fans
that are out there and and knowing that
a lot of the people that watch my
content are from Europe but also maybe a
North American audience that hasn't had
a chance to kind of share 4G to yet or
or are missing you at MSI this year um
well though you know d2 is present not
only League of Legends also
counter-strike rocket League you know a
bunch of that of games and overall our
fan base actually is approximately
between thirty and thirty three percent
right now from the US which is not bad
actually but with that said you know we
are not focusing on certain region or
anything like that we feel like this is
a global phenomenon and everything we do
every single video we do every single
social media communication we do we try
to take in consideration the fact that
you know European guys are awake or
after job and the u.s. guys are about to
go to like we are always thinking in
both kind of time zones right now so
yeah everything we do is just for the
fans so even if we have backed up over
over the course of the last few years it
is normal we you know we learn fast and
we look forward so the only thing I can
say is thanks very much to everybody
that's been there with us from the from
the beginning thanks for watch for
everyone that's new as well and now it's
time to get into the podcast yeah and
yeah thanks Twiggy to army yeah and by
the time people watch this interview the
podcast will be up somewhere where can
people find it yes thanks very much yeah
youtube.com slash
g2 eSports you'll be able to find the
podcast there also iTunes actually
Spotify and SoundCloud learn all over
the place so we'll have and yes I go to
the gym and listen to myself in the
podcast that's so sad but I have
a podcast I don't do that but I do yes I
do
well at least you own it thanks so much
for the interview Carlos for everyone
else you can check out the rest of my
coverage of all things eSports right
here on my youtube channel according to
my YouTube statistics about half of you
that watch these interviews are
subscribed which is awesome because it
used to be like 33% but a ton of people
have subscribed in the past year which
is great I would love to see that never
get a little bit higher so maybe you
can't hit up the support page maybe you
can't hit up the patreon but subscribing
to my channel is super helpful and I
would love to see it happen so if you're
interested and my content please do that
otherwise thanks for watching